Feature Specification: Predictive AI 
Workflow Trigger 
PRD Reference: PRD-2025-11-001 
Lead Engineer: [Engineer Name] 
Date: 2025-11-15 
1. Overview and Rationale 
This document details the technical implementation of the Predictive AI Workflow Trigger 
(PAWT) feature. PAWT uses a proprietary time-series model (NexaCore-TSM v1.2) to predict 
system demand spikes and automatically trigger scale-up actions or preemptive reporting 
workflows for enterprise clients. 
Goal: Proactively mitigate service degradation before a human can react. 
2. Technical Design 
2.1 Service Architecture 
The PAWT will be implemented as a new microservice (svc-pawt) running within the core K8s 
cluster. 
●​ Language: Python (due to existing AI/ML ecosystem). 
●​ Data Source: svc-pawt will subscribe to the Kafka topic: core-telemetry-metrics 
(low-latency stream). 
●​ Output Action: Upon prediction threshold breach, svc-pawt calls the Workflow Engine 
API (/v1/trigger) with the payload: {"workflow_id": "[ID]", "trigger_source": "PAWT", 
"prediction_confidence": [Value]}. 
2.2 AI Model Integration 
●​ Model Name: NexaCore-TSM-v1.2 (Trained on 12 months of aggregated client telemetry 
data). 
●​ Prediction Input: Requires 5 minutes of continuous data: Average CPU utilization, API 
call volume (per second), and database connection pool usage. 
●​ Prediction Output: A 1-hour lookahead prediction for API call volume. 
●​ Trigger Threshold: The workflow is triggered when the predicted API call volume 
exceeds of the current cluster capacity's historical maximum (P99). 
2.3 API Endpoint Details 
Method 
Endpoint 
Description 
Authentication 

POST 
/api/v1/pawt/status 
Allows system to 
check the current 
health and 
prediction score. 
Internal Token 
3. Data & Storage Requirements 
●​ Storage: svc-pawt requires a PostgreSQL database instance (db-pawt) to store 
prediction history and model calibration data. 
●​ Data Retention: Prediction history older than 90 days must be automatically archived to 
cold storage (S3 Glacier) due to volume. 
4. Testing Plan 
4.1 Unit Testing 
Standard unit tests for data transformation and API calls. 
4.2 Integration Testing 
Verify that svc-pawt successfully subscribes to the Kafka topic and successfully sends the 
trigger payload to the Workflow Engine API. 
4.3 Load Testing 
Simulate a rapid 5-minute surge in core-telemetry-metrics data to ensure the service can 
process the stream and generate the trigger event within 10 seconds of the threshold 
breach.